So fathom for a moment,
you're at your job and
you work at this OMDB company that's
showing people movie statistics.
It's some IMDB type company.
And you show your boss this really cool
query that you can actually show people,
how much profit movies were making and
people were really
interested in this query.
So you're like hey, using this query,
I can show this database and
I can show you profit of movies by movie,
by category, by actor.
And people like this are amazing,
people are gonna wanna see this and
you show them this query,
which is what this does.
Let's just take a look so
you can see what the results are.
You can see here this is revenue,
this is budget, this is the profit.
I'm going to just caution you for a moment
that this is all Hollywood accounting
it's all reported numbers which is
to say none of it makes any sense.
There's I love to do the article here
of what a Hollywood accounting is and
basically it's just flat lies.
That let's say your coworkers are very
into this, your boss says like this is
amazing great job go make a dashboard
that we can put on our front page.
And literally all 10 million of our
users are gonna see it every day,
several times a day.
You go back to your desk you'd run,
explain, analyze, and you see,
I cannot run a 7000 cost a 53 millisecond
query 10 million times a day.
That's a bad thing, right?
So now you're like freaking out.
What am I going to do about this?
All I've ever learned how it
is to index individual rows,
I haven't figured out how to index
any sort of derivative information.
You could do something like put it
in Redis or something like that.
You could query it and then populate
a cache or something like that.
But who wants to do that, especially if
you don't have that stood up already.
So there is actually a way you can
actually index on derivative values here.
You see this derivative value I have
here which is revenue minus budget,
you can index on that.
So I'm going to say create index
idx_movies profit on movies and
then you just give it that part that
you're gonna index which is coalesce
revenue-budget,0, right?
Cuz we all want we want
movies that had no budget and
no profit to be zero which is fine and
then I need another one right because and
I also have to have one
in front which I did.
What do I have two at the end
here that's my question.
Right cuz you need one around this
as well parentheses they'll get you.
Okay, now I have this index
around movies profit and
that now I can actually query that and
if I do an explain here.
Again doing the same query I went
from doing was I say about 6000 7000,
something like that 7300 up
here to now I did it again and
I'm getting 1.33 because it's
actually able to index this.
And now anytime that I insert a new movie,
it'll actually calculate this in
advance and it won't have to run
these calculations on the fly.
So I went from, 7000 to 1.33.
I went from 53 milliseconds
down to 0.132 or
6, something like that.
>> So does it make like a hidden column?
Essentially, like it's storing that
whenever you update either those
columns, right?
>> Yeah.
It is storing that I'm hesitant to call
it hidden column because it's not,
it's actually just totally separate.
It's in a totally separate data structure,
it doesn't get stored
necessarily as the movie,
it just gets stored as a index, right?
It's stored in a B-tree, it's not stored
in the table, I guess that's my point.
But if you wanna think of it as,
there is a index profit,
which is a derivative value from
the table, that's what it is, right.
So I've kind of disclaimed this throughout
my entire part of query performance.
I am not a DBA.
I have shown you a couple of very
simple ways of doing indexing anything
more complicated than this,
you should really work with your team to
figure out what's the best thing to do.
Because really big difficult queries
could make that really difficult.
So, but for personal stuff and for simple
tables and simple querying purposes,
this would be enough.
I'm more concerned that you know what's
possible and you can identify problems.
That actually being able to articulate
this is precisely the index and how I
would use it more you can say I know this
is messed up and I know it can be fixed.
And if you're using things like PG
admin or you can go look at DynamoDBs,
or Aurora, or Cosmos DB, or
any of these cloud databases.
It's gonna ask you to track
slow queries for you,
and then later you can
go write Indexes for.
Some of these cloud companies
are even starting to suggest,
I see you run this query a lot.
I see that it causes you
a lot of trouble in your app.
We suggest that you try this index.
So they're actually getting
smarter about it as they go.